README.md, before:

# Monero Development Harness

Monero development Harness - documentation and notes

## Useful Info

Monero is very different than btc in that it does not provide a single rpc
tool like `bitcoin-cli` but rather a set of json & non-json apis which can
be used by sending curl requests for each one.

Monero wallets are accounts based

<https://web.getmonero.org/resources/moneropedia/account.html>

## Architecture

![alt text](image-1.png)

Embedded in Tmux

## Using

### Prerequisites

- **monero-x86_64-linux-gnu-v0.18.3.3** or later <https://downloads.getmonero.org/cli/linux64>
- **linux** (tested on Ubuntu 22.04)
- **jq** (1.6)

### Setup

**monero-x86_64-linux-gnu-v0.18.3.3** should be in PATH

`export PATH=$PATH:[path-to]/monero-x86_64-linux-gnu-v0.18.3.3`

### Background Mining

By default background mining is set up and mines to bill wallet every 15s

To disable:

`export NOMINER="1" to your shell`
 
 or else invoke the harness with:

`NOMINER="1" ./harness.sh`

### Run

run `./harness.sh`

### Commands Help

run `./help` from the tmux harness window 0

```text

Commands Help:
--------------
alpha_get_transactions

- get transaction details for one or more txid
- inputs:
  - tx_hashes - hash1,hash2,hash3,...
  - decode_as_json - Optional - returns more detail but in a escaped raw json format

alpha_info

- get running daemon details - height, etc.
- inputs: None

alpha_sendrawtransaction

- broadcast a previously built signed tx
- inputs:
  - tx_as_hex string - can be generated with charlie_build_tx or fred_build_tx

alpha_transaction_pool

- get mempool details
- inputs: None

mine-to-bill

- generate 1 or more blocks to bill wallet
- inputs:
  - num_blocks - defaults to 1

bill_balance

- get bill wallet balance details
- inputs: None

bill_transfer_to

- build, sign and broadcast a transaction from bill wallet to another address
- inputs:
  - amount in in atomic units 1e12 - e.g. 1230000000000 echo = 1.23 XMR
  - address - recipient primary address - account index 0, subaddr_indeces [0]

charlie_balance

- get charlie wallet balance details
- inputs: None

charlie_build_tx

- build a signed tx for later broadcasting using alpha_send
- inputs:
  - amount in in atomic units 1e12 - e.g. 1230000000000 = 1.23 XMR
  - address - recipient primary address - account index 0, subaddr_indeces [0]
  - unlock_time - unlock after n blocks and make spendable - defaults to 0 (no lock)
-outputs:
  - signed tx_blob
  - tx_hash

charlie_incoming_transfers

- get a list of incoming mined transfers to charlie wallet
- inputs: None

charlie_transfer_to

- build, sign and broadcast a transaction from charlie wallet to another address
- inputs
  - amount in in atomic units 1e12 - e.g. 1230000000000 echo = 1.23 XMR
  - address - recipient primary address - account index 0, subaddr_indeces [0]
  - unlock_time - unlock after n blocks and make spendable - defaults to 0 (no lock)

charlie_view_export_outputs

- export charlie_view outputs - charlie_view knows the outputs but has no keys
- inputs: None
- only useful in offline, cold signing process using monero-wallet-cli interactive tool

fred_balance

- get fred wallet balance details
- inputs: None

fred_build_tx

- build a signed tx for later broadcasting using alpha_send
- inputs:
  - amount in in atomic units 1e12 - e.g. 1230000000000 = 1.23 XMR
  - address - recipient primary address - account index 0, subaddr_indeces [0]
  - unlock_time - unlock after n blocks and make spendable - defaults to 0 (no lock)
-outputs:
  - signed tx_blob
  - tx_hash

fred_incoming_transfers

- get a list of incoming mined transfers to fred wallet
- inputs: None

fred_transfer_to

- build, sign and broadcast a transaction from bill wallet to another address
- inputs
  - amount in in atomic units 1e12 - e.g. 1230000000000 echo = 1.23 XMR
  - address - recipient primary address - account index 0, subaddr_indeces [0]
  - unlock_time - unlock after n blocks and make spendable - defaults to 0 (no lock)

wallets

- wallet details exported to the harness environment - useful for building commands in the harness window 0

help

- this help

quit

- shutdown daemons and the quit harness

```text

Commit message:

harness,test,docs: add refresh cmd for fred, charlie and bill

README.md, after:

# Monero Development Harness

Monero development Harness - documentation and notes

## Useful Info

Monero is very different than btc in that it does not provide a single rpc
tool like `bitcoin-cli` but rather a set of json 2.0 & other older json apis
which can be accessed by sending curl requests for each one.

Monero wallets are accounts based

<https://web.getmonero.org/resources/moneropedia/account.html>

## Architecture

![alt text](image-1.png)

Embedded in Tmux

## Using

### Prerequisites

- **monero-x86_64-linux-gnu-v0.18.3.3** or later <https://downloads.getmonero.org/cli/linux64>
- **linux** (tested on Ubuntu 22.04)
- **jq** (1.6)

### Setup

**monero-x86_64-linux-gnu-v0.18.3.3** should be in PATH

`export PATH=$PATH:[path-to]/monero-x86_64-linux-gnu-v0.18.3.3`

### Background Mining

By default background mining is set up and mines to bill wallet every 15s

To disable:

`export NOMINER="1" to your shell`

 or else invoke the harness with:

`NOMINER="1" ./harness.sh`

You should disable if attempting the manual offline cold signing using `monero-wallet-cli`

You should also ctl-C charlie & charlie_view wallets

### Run

`./harness.sh`

### Data Directory

![alt text](image-2.png)

### Commands Help

run `./help` from the tmux harness window 0

```text

Commands Help:
--------------
alpha_get_transactions

- get transaction details for one or more txid
- inputs:
  - tx_hashes - hash1,hash2,hash3,...
  - decode_as_json - Optional - returns more detail but in a escaped raw json format

alpha_info

- get running daemon details - height, etc.
- inputs: None

alpha_sendrawtransaction

- broadcast a previously built signed tx
- inputs:
  - tx_as_hex string - can be generated with charlie_build_tx or fred_build_tx

alpha_transaction_pool

- get mempool details
- inputs: None

mine-to-bill

- generate 1 or more blocks to bill wallet
- inputs:
  - num_blocks - defaults to 1

bill_balance

- get bill wallet balance details
- inputs: None

bill_refresh_wallet

- update bill's wallet from the daemon latest info
- inputs: None

bill_transfer_to

- build, sign and broadcast a transaction from bill wallet to another address
- inputs:
  - amount in in atomic units 1e12 - e.g. 1230000000000 echo = 1.23 XMR
  - address - recipient primary address - account index 0, subaddr_indeces [0]

charlie_balance

- get charlie wallet balance details
- inputs: None

charlie_refresh_wallet

- update charlie's wallet from the daemon latest info
- inputs: None

charlie_build_tx

- build a signed tx for later broadcasting using alpha_send
- inputs:
  - amount in in atomic units 1e12 - e.g. 1230000000000 = 1.23 XMR
  - address - recipient primary address - account index 0, subaddr_indeces [0]
  - unlock_time - unlock after n blocks and make spendable - defaults to 0 (no lock)
-outputs:
  - signed tx_blob
  - tx_hash

charlie_incoming_transfers

- get a list of incoming mined transfers to charlie wallet
- inputs: None

charlie_transfer_to

- build, sign and broadcast a transaction from charlie wallet to another address
- inputs
  - amount in in atomic units 1e12 - e.g. 1230000000000 echo = 1.23 XMR
  - address - recipient primary address - account index 0, subaddr_indeces [0]
  - unlock_time - unlock after n blocks and make spendable - defaults to 0 (no lock)

charlie_view_export_outputs

- export charlie_view outputs - charlie_view knows the outputs but has no keys
- inputs: None
- only useful in offline, cold signing process using monero-wallet-cli interactive tool

fred_balance

- get fred wallet balance details
- inputs: None

fred_refresh_wallet

- update fred's wallet from the daemon latest info
- inputs: None

fred_build_tx

- build a signed tx for later broadcasting using alpha_send
- inputs:
  - amount in in atomic units 1e12 - e.g. 1230000000000 = 1.23 XMR
  - address - recipient primary address - account index 0, subaddr_indeces [0]
  - unlock_time - unlock after n blocks and make spendable - defaults to 0 (no lock)
-outputs:
  - signed tx_blob
  - tx_hash

fred_incoming_transfers

- get a list of incoming mined transfers to fred wallet
- inputs: None

fred_transfer_to

- build, sign and broadcast a transaction from bill wallet to another address
- inputs
  - amount in in atomic units 1e12 - e.g. 1230000000000 echo = 1.23 XMR
  - address - recipient primary address - account index 0, subaddr_indeces [0]
  - unlock_time - unlock after n blocks and make spendable - defaults to 0 (no lock)

wallets

- wallet details exported to the harness environment - useful for building commands in the harness window 0

help

- this help

quit

- shutdown daemons and the quit harness

```text
